.. highlight:: rst

=========
Messaging
========= 

Temporary Mailbox

When task offers and requests are submitted, a temporary bitmessage 
contact address is generated specifically for communications relevant to 
that task.

This mailbox is used for manual negotiations, clarifications, and 
automatic contract proposals, until such time as the contract is 
considered complete. Inquiries

Potential clients or service providers will want to contact the poster 
directly to discuss the details of a task, to clarify intentions, or to 
negotiate a contract and begin work.

Depending on the work involved, it may be more practical for some 
workers to use email or another form of instant messaging (IRC, XMPP, 
etc) to discuss a task on a regular basis. Before contacting a taskhive 
profile regarding work, check the privacy preferences of the client for 
which communication channels are allowed, to avoid future 
misunderstandings.

Inquiries are made to the temporary bitmessage mailbox generated 
specifically for a task offer or request. This can be done seamlessly 
inside the client directly from the task view screen, and later again 
from the mailbox menu.

There is no limit of how many inquiries can be made to the same mailbox 
for the same task. If a received message is considered spam (multiple 
offers without waiting for response, offers for unrelated services to 
the task, constant messaging) it is important to mark the message as 
spam. This will automatically add the profile to the local ignore list 
and leave Unsolicited feedback noting that you received spam from the 
profile. Responding

Incoming messages show up in the mailbox screen and also trigger an 
alert on the system. After receiving a request for clarification or 
additional information on a task, responses can be sent directly from 
the mailbox message view screen.

There is no limit of how many responses can be made to the same mailbox 
for the same task. It is important not to abuse this however as a 
profile may be marked as a spammer for unsolicited or unnecessary 
responses, especially those unrelated to the task.

