Profile

To participate in the Taskhive network, a profile is needed for 
representation. A profile can be as detailed and public, or bare-bones 
and private, as desired. The bare minimum profile will consist of only a 
public key. A full profile might include work samples, an avatar image, 
and lengthy reputation feedback.

Identity

In Taskhive, profiles are identified by a cryptographic public key. This 
public key is necessary to verify authenticity of correspondence, sign 
contracts, and build a reputation on the network. The client application 
can generate this key, or an existing compatible key can be imported.

Profile public keys are ECDSA Secp256k1 keys (identical to keys used in 
bitcoin). This means that any key generated for a bitcoin wallet will 
also work for identity inside of taskhive.

Compatible Keys

For convenience and compatibility with other reputation networks, GPG 
keys may optionally be added to a profile. For established GPG users, 
this can serve to import existing Web-of-Trust reputation to the 
network.

Default Identicons

Default profile identicons are generated by feeding the compressed 
public key to the Identicon library. Due to the higher probability of 
collision and confusion, it is recommended to upgrade to a Qrcode-art 
avatar.



*Example default pixel-art avatars generated from public key.*

Qrcode-art Avatars

Qrcode-art avatars are generated by feeding a low resolution image to 
the CuteR library, along with the encoded profile's compressed public 
key data. The binary data is then embedded into profiles as a base64 
string for display on the client.



*Example Qrcode avatars generated via the CuteR library.*

Feedback

Positive, neutral and negative feedback can be left for profiles on 
taskhive. Feedback is categorized into three basic types:

Unsolicited – this type of feedback carries the least weight and may 
contain spam, libel or unrelated personal drama. Nevertheless, 
unsolicited feedback is necessary on a p2p network to promote 
transparency and to combat corruption. An example legitimate use of 
unsolicited feedback is when a profile is misrepresenting skills by 
stealing samples of other freelancers. Unsolicited feedback carries a 
neutral score (0).

Solicited-Transaction – this type of feedback is directly tied to a 
transaction and carries the most weight. Any parties to a transaction 
may leave this type of feedback, including escrow agents. 
Solicited-transaction feedback can carry a negative (-1), neutral (0), 
or positive (+1) score rating.

Rebuttal – this type of feedback is used against both unsolicited and 
solicited-transaction feedback to present a rebuttal against false or 
inappropriate claims, provide public evidence to protect reputation, or 
to notify the public of malicious feedback abuse. Rebuttal feedback 
carries a neutral score (0).

Feedback data for all profiles is continuously circulating throughout 
the network, bouncing between peers so that it is always available upon 
request. Each client is opted-in automatically to participating in this 
crucial broadcast service, but may opt-out manually. For mobile users, 
it is only enabled when connected over Wi-fi.

Reputation Tally

Profiles display a reputation tally based on signed feedback data. 
Tallies are displayed as a hexagonal grid, color coded to represent 
negative and positive encounters.



The feedback data used in tallying the reputation score comes from 
feedback broadcast across the network, but not all data is equal. It 
must be filtered against local criteria:

Local Follow List – this list includes profiles manually followed, or 
profiles opted-to-follow when leaving positive Solicited-Transaction 
feedback. Feedback scores given by these profiles will be included.

Local Ignore List – this list includes profiles manually ignored, or 
profiles opted-to-ignore when leaving negative Solicited-Transaction 
feedback. Feedback scores givenby these profiles will be ignored.

Skills

For freelancers, the skills section of a profile lists what categories 
the profile is offering services in. An example of the skills that might 
be listed in a profile are:


+-------------+------------+---------------+--------------+
| Writing     | Editing    | Design        | Voice acting |
| Development | Data entry | Video editing | Research     |
+-------------+------------+---------------+--------------+

Work Samples

Work samples may be provided as unsafe links to third-party websites. 
Accessing these links directly may lead to reduced privacy or complete 
deanonymization. Using Tor or a trusted VPN is recommended.

Third-party Profile Authentication

Authentication of third-party profiles and portfolios is possible 
through a signed string containing the hash of the profile or 
portfolio's address, combined with the taskhive profile's public key. 
This string can then be posted anywhere on or inside the third-party 
profile, or as instructed inside taskhive.

When adding work samples, taskhive will automatically detect the 
relative account to the work sample and provide instructions for 
authenticating it.

Proving ownership of an account does not guarantee ownership of work 
samples, as accounts can be cloned or spoofed with stolen work. It is 
recommended to use due diligence and search on a major search engine for 
work samples, either through titles and body content or reverse image 
searching.

Privacy Preferences

Depending on the work involved, it may be more practical for some 
workers to use email or another form of instant messaging (IRC, XMPP, 
etc) to discuss a task on a regular basis. A profile's privacy 
preferences let potential clients know what form of contact is 
acceptable to avoid future misunderstandings.
